---
layout: post
title:  "On-prem Kubernetes"
date:   2020-06-14 21:22:37 +0200
categories: k8s
---

I have spent time looking at edge deployments of kubernetes, especially, those that are managed by the Ops team in an industry 4.0 setting. Here are my candidates:

- KubeEdge
- k3s
- k3os
- StarlingX

I present my brief impressions of each below. This post will need updates as my research goes on.

### Background

_Edge_ is often used as a vague term for either one of CDN, factory network or IT data center. There is a fair amount of confusion where cloud transforms into "Edge".

_Fog_ apparently is used to describe the same concepts and maintains the vaporous water analogue that is so popular in this space (think about it: data lake, fog, clouds ...) Usage of the term "Fog" has been tainted by Cisco. [They make a poor attempt](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/solutions/enterprise-networks/edge-computing.html) to show the difference. Meh.

_kubernetes_ is a container orchestrator that has become extremely popular in the last few years. It provides a common API to manage all containers running in your system.

_Cloud native_ is used to describe container-first and container-based systems. (my own definition)

_CNCF_ is the cloud native computing foundation. It manages projects that specifically target cloud native systems. It does not manage all cloud-native projects. To the contrary, there is a small list of projects that are managed by CNCF.

_Linux Foundation_ maintains a set of open source projects. LF Edge is the subgroup that does this for projects targeting Edge deployments. LF projects are of all types.

_OpenStack Foundation_ is another foundation that was originally formed for OpenStack's projects (next item) but it seems to now be accepting projects related to other systems.

_OpenStack_ is the most popular open source cloud. It's the OG thing: was popular before docker, k8s or anything container-related was mainstream. There are still many users of OpenStack in the wild and it's not going anywhere soon.


### KubeEdge
KubeEdge is a CNCF sandbox project designed to extend Kubernetes from cloud to edge. The IoT Edge has unique challenges that no one solution can provide a complete solution for. KubeEdge is designed to meet the challenge of:
- Network Reliability
- Resource constraint; and
- Scalability

KubeEdge has agents running on the Edge. The control plane resides on the Cloud and if there's a network failure/disconnect, the agents keep on doing the necessary control operations. Metadata is synchronized as soon as the connection is restored.

KubeEdge is an opinionated take on the Edge: it provides services and frameworks for messaging and networking. And, since it's opinionated, everyone might not agree with it.

My opinion is that KubeEdge will keep on serving a large userbase but it might not be extremely well suited to the 20% market that wants extra flexibility. How it pans out long-term is yet to be seen.

KubeEdge is bringing edge-edge communication which will be interesting combined with newer enhancements in the Linux kernel (read: Wireguard.) This is an extremely interesting project but for the Industry I'm working in, might not be the first choice - atleast for me.

### k3s
_describe k3s briefly and discuss the overhead of k8s api and where k3s differs (e.g. etcd)_

### k3os
_benefits of not maintaining your OS and it's downsides_

### StarlingX
_Describe StarlingX and my contributions towards the project. Explain why it's the most complete Edge Platform. Annoyances too._